Hello, my friends, and welcome to part two of this implementation, where we're going to build together
the convolutional neural network and more specifically, the whole architecture of this new artificial
neural network.
All right.
So it's actually going to start the same as with our artificial Newville network, because convolutional
neural network is still a sequence of layers.
Therefore, we're going to initialize here our CNN with the same class, which remember is sequential
class.
And that's a first step where we're going to not only call that sequential class, but mostly create
that see an and variable which will represent exactly this convolutional neural network.
And the CNN voidable will be created once again as an instance of that sequential class, which allows
to create an artificial neural network as a sequence of layers.
So now remember how we can get access to this class.
Well, first, we need to call center flow, which has a sugar T.F. from which we're going to call the
Keris Library, from which we're going to get access to the models module.
And from which we're going to call that sequential class.
So exactly the same as before.
And this initializes indeed are CNN has a sequence of layers as opposed to a computational graph.
Great.
And now, step by step, we're going to use this, you know, add method to add different layers, whether
they are convolutional layers or fully connected layers and India and the outer layer.
So we're going to use successively now the add method, starting with tip one convolution.
And so now in a new code cell.
Well, first we'll take our CNN object or convolutional neural network from which we're gonna call,
of course, the ADD method to add our very first convolutional layer.
All right.
So what I want right now is, of course, a convolutional layer.
And once again, this convolutional layer will be an object of a certain class, which is the conv to
D class.
And this class, just as the dance class, which allows to build a fully connected layer, belongs to
the same module, which is a layer's module from the Keris library.
From this time tensor flow.
Since Denser Flow 2.0.
So for us, we're going to get Tenzer flow from which we're gonna get access to the Keris library,
from which we're gonna get access to the Layers module.
And there we go.
From which we're gonna call that conv to D..
There we go.
Class Konsta, the class.
Then we add some parenthesis, of course, because that's a class.
And inside we have to input three important parameters, which are the filters.
Which basically is the number of feature detectors you want to apply to your images, you know, to
detect features.
And these are indeed also called filters or Col's.
Right.
If we scroll down here, actually have all the info of these parameters.
Arguments, filters, the number of output filters in the convolution.
Well, basically that the feature detectors.
So that's our first argument.
Then we will also specify a kernel size.
And actually I've prepared some slides that I made to show use.
Basically, this is the filter and this filters parameter will tell us how many feature detectors we
want, how many filters we want.
And the kernel size is exactly, you know, the size of that feature detector, meaning the number of
rows, which is also the number of columns.
Because this is usually a squared array, you know.
So, for example, if we choose a size three, which is actually the size we're gonna choose.
Well, that means that the size of our feature detector will be three by three.
OK.
As simple as that.
And then we have some other arguments, but no worries.
We'll just keep the default value for the rest of them because that will be just fine.
However, of course, we're not going to keep the default value of that activation parameter, which
corresponds, of course, to the activation function.
Because indeed, you know, on a general rule, as long as we haven't reached the output layer, we
rather want to get a rectifier activation function.
And therefore, for this one activation, we're gonna choose once again the RELU parameters name, which
corresponds to the rectify activation function.
And finally, we have one less argument we have to input in, which is not displayed here, because
that's hidden by this one, but which you can actually see here.
That's the input shape.
When you add your very first layer, whether it is a convolutional layer or a dense layer.
Well, you have to specify the input shape of your inputs.
And here, since we were working with colored images, therefore in three dimensions, you know, corresponding
to the RTP code of colors.
And since we actually resized in part one, are images down to 64 by 64.
Well, the input shape of our images will be 64, 64 and three.
And if we were working with black and white images here, we would have one instead of three.
But we're working with.
Images, and therefore, that's what will be our input shape, 64, 64 and three.
All right.
And that's the essential parameters that we have to enter.
So there we go.
Let's enter them, starting with the filters parameter.
There we go.
And now the question is, well, how many feature detectors we want?
Well, we're just gonna go for a classic architecture.
You can find many architectures of convolutional on the one that works online.
We're gonna choose a classic one, which I, of course, tried on are images and which turns out to
work very well.
And that architecture consists of having 32 filters in that first convolutional layer and then another
32 filters in that second convolutional layer.
All right.
So let's just choose here.
Filters equals 32 and feel free, of course, to choose another parameter value.
I remind that this is an artist job.
You're free to experiment any architecture you like, and you might probably get some better results
than the ones we're about to get India.
All right.
So filters equal 32 that for the first parameter.
And now for the second parameter, as we said, it is going to be the kernel underscore size, this
one.
And as we said, we want a three by three dimensions.
And we only have to specify three.
And then, as we said, we want to make sure that we have a rectifier activation function.
So here for this new activation parameter, we're going to choose in quotes.
Well, the RELU activation function exactly the same as before.
And finally, for that last parameter, we have to specify the input shape of our images, which we
have to enter in a pair of square brackets.
And there we go.
We resized our images to have the 64 by 64 dimensions.
And since we're working with Godet images, we have to add here three instead of one.
All right.
That's our input shape.
And that's it.
This add the convolutional layer to your CNN so far initialized as a sequence of layers.
Good.
So now we can move on to step two puling.
So let's create a new coattail.
And this consists, of course, of applying, puling.
And more specifically, we're going to apply max puling, just as you saw in the intuition lectures.
All right.
So once again, we need to take our seat and object from which we're gonna call now a new method.
But is that really new?
According to you, do we have to call the add method again?
Well, yes, we do.
Actually, we're adding the pooling layers to our convolutional layer.
You know, as the next step in the sequence of layers.
So there we go.
We call that add method once again.
And then inside.
Well, that max pulling layer will once again be created as an object, you know, as an instance of
a certain class, which is called the max pool to the class.
And this class belongs to the same module as before the layers module.
So there we go.
We're actually going to take this.
You know, I'm going to copy this, paste that right here.
And then instead of taking the comes to the class, we're going to take this time the max pool to the
class.
Perfect.
And inside, we have to specify two essential arguments, which are the pool size.
So let me show you what this corresponds to.
So this is a whole convolutional process, you know, with the feature detector applied to the input
image resulting in having that created feature map.
All right.
So that's all this.
And there we go.
Now we move on to step two.
So we have our feature map, which is the result of our previous convolution, and we apply, Max,
pulling to obtain this pooled feature map.
You know, that same feature map of the convolutional layer after we apply Max pulling.
And when we do this, you know, we have this little frame here that will get the maximum pixel of the
four cells inside, you know, the four pixels inside.
And that pool size parameter, which we're about to enter here, is exactly the size of that frame,
you know, which is once again a square.
So we only have to specify the width or, you know, the height.
So basically here in this example, too.
Okay.
And, well, you know, speaking of two, that's exactly the pool size which we're going to choose and
which is the one I recommend to work with when applying Max Pulley.
Okay, then let's see.
The other parameter that is important is the strides.
OK.
So interesting.
Let's have a look at our slides once again.
So I'm going to move to the next slide here and let's see by which number of pixels is this frame shifted
to the right.
Let's see.
All right.
So it is actually shifted by two pixels.
You know, instead of going from this frame to that frame, which would be a slight of one.
Well, we went directly from this frame to that one.
OK.
And this makes sense when applying, Max pulling because we only want to get the maximum of each square
here of pixels.
Right.
So the recommended slide once again, is to they indeed were sliding two by two pixels.
And when we reach, you know, that border of the future map here, you know, with extra empty cells
here, well, you can actually choose two different ways.
And that corresponds to that parameter, which is the bedding.
The default value is valid.
But the other value is same.
And, well, the differences is that, you know, with a valid bedding, you will just ignore the other
two cells here.
And with the same bedding, you will just add an extra column was just fake pixels that are equal to
zero.
But don't worry too much about this bedding.
I tried actually with the two values.
This doesn't change anything in the final result.
And so I just recommend to keep the default value.
But the slide is important.
And now we're sliding two by two.
OK.
So let's do this.
Let's enter our parameters for that max pool to the class.
The first one is, as we said, the pool size.
There we go.
And we want to have exactly as in this slide, a two by two frame, which we only have to specify with
the parameter input, too.
And then the second argument is the strides, you know, the essential one.
And we want to shift that frame every two pixels and therefore we're going to choose traits of two.
All right.
And that apply successfully.
Max, pulling as simple as that.
And you can just copy paste this line wherever you want to apply.
Max, pulling to your CNN and actually speaking of which.
Well, you know, now we want to add a second convolutional layer and admire how I'm going to do this
so efficiently.
So first, I'm going to create a new coat cell.
Then I'm going to take that cell.
Copy it, then paste it right here.
Then for the pooling.
Take that cell.
Copy it.
Then pasted right below.
And now, according to you, do we have to change something here?
Or can we leave it this way?
Well, we can't leave it this way, actually.
We just need to remove that input shape parameter because this one is entered only when you add your
very first layer, you know, to automatically connect that first layer to the input layer, which automatically
adds the input layer.
But here we are already with our second convolutional layer.
So that's all good.
We can just remove it.
Good.
And now.
Perfect.
All this add a second convolutional layer with Max pulling a plate and we can now move on to step three
flattening, which will consist of, of course, flattening the result of all these convolutions and
pullings into a one dimensional vector, which will become the input of a future fully connected new
network.
Just as we built in the previous section.
All right.
So let's do this.
Let's implement that step three flattening and well, as usual, you know, we need to take our seat
and an object from which we're gonna call the ADD method once again, because the way we're gonna create
that flattening layer is once again by creating an instance of a certain class and that certain class
is the flattened class.
And, you know, carers will automatically understand that it is the result of all these convolutions
and pullings that will be flattened into this one dimensional vector.
So the only thing we have to do is just to specify that we want to apply flattening and to do this.
We need to call once again the layers module by the Keris library, by sense of flow from which we're
going to call this time that flatten class.
And good news, this class actually doesn't need to take anything as parameters.
All right.
So this simply implements step three flattening and we can directly move on to step four for connection.
So now it's your turn.
You can actually do it yourself.
So I would like you to please press buzz on the video, because we are in the exact same situation as
before, you know, building a fully connected neural network.
So you know exactly how to do this.
I would like you to add a new fully connected layer to that flatten layer, which is now nothing else
than a one dimensional vector that will become the input of a fully connected neural network.
So do this first and we'll implement the solution in a few seconds.
Good.
All right.
Let's do this.
So you know exactly how to do this for us.
We create a new code cell.
Then we take once again our C and N neural network from which we're gonna call the ADD method.
Because now we're about add a new layer, which is a fully connected layer and which belongs still to
that T.F. Keris layers, which I've already copied.
So I can just base that here and this time take that dance class.
Perfect.
And now in to some new parentheses.
I'm sure you figured out what.
Enter as parameters.
First, remember, we have the unit, which is number of hidden neurons.
You want to have into this new fully connected layer.
And since now we're actually dealing with a more complex problem.
You know, computer vision is way more complex than data mining.
Classic data set as before.
Well, we're going to choose a larger number of hidden neurons.
We're gonna choose one hundred twenty eight hidden neurons.
However, if you picked the same number as before, you know, in the previous section with our CNN,
well, I'm sure that story fun and I'm sure you'll get great results afterwards.
But we might get a better accuracy in the end with a larger number of neurons.
And therefore, let's choose here.
Units equals one hundred and twenty eight.
Great.
And now second argument, that, of course, the activation function.
And once again, my recommendation is that as long as you haven't reached the final output layer, I
recommend to use a rectifier activation function.
And that's exactly what we're going to specify here with this activation parameter.
And remember, the code name for the rectifier activation function is real.
You are right and perfect.
This add are fully connected layer.
And finally, the step five.
You see how we're being so efficient here in that step five.
We need to add the final output layer, which will still be fully connected to that previous hidden
layer.
Therefore, we're gonna call once again the dance class.
And therefore, in a new code cell, I'm going to actually, you know, take all this, then base that
here and inside will only have to replace two things, which are the values of these two parameters,
because indeed, the number of units, you know, the number of neurons in the final output layer is
definitely not 128.
But you tell me.
Well, it's actually, of course, one.
It's exactly the same as before.
We're doing binary classification.
Therefore, we only need one neuron to encode that binary class zero or one or, you know, cat or dog.
And therefore, we only need one neuron.
And for the activation function, remember that for the output layer, it is not recommended to have
a rectifier activation function, but rather a sigmoid activation function.
And that's because, of course, we're doing binary classification.
Otherwise, if we were doing multiclass classification, we would have, remember, a softmax activation
function.
But there we go.
This will add a great output layer, which will optimize the result in the end.
And now I have to say once again, a huge congratulations to you, because there you go.
You just build a convolutional neural network.
We're done with part two.
We can already move on to part three, training the CNN.
And this will consist, of course, making this brain, you know, this artificial brain with some eyes.
Pretty smart to recognize cats or dogs in images.
So now we deserve a good break.
So make sure to recharge in good energy for the next Turrill.
And as soon as you're ready, we'll let us mash together Part three, training the CNN.